#summary This is the roadmap for the project
#labels Phase-Requirements,Featured

This is not intended to be a massive library. I develop it depending on the use-cases I encounter. Please get in touch if you have comments or suggestions.

= Original motivation =

The original objectives for this library was to provide a consistent way of setting SSL-related parameters in [http://www.restlet.org/ Restlet] and [http://www.mortbay.org/jetty/ Jetty].

== Restlet ==

I am the SSL extension committer for Restlet. The SSL related documentation can be found in the [http://wiki.restlet.org/|Restlet Wiki].

== Jetty ==

The use in conjunction with Jetty was addressed in [http://jira.codehaus.org/browse/JETTY-554 JETTY-554], fixed in Jetty 7.0.0pre4. I also posted some examples on [http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.comp.java.jetty.general/11386 the Jetty-dev list]. (Please use `buildSSLContext` instead of `newInitializedSSLContext`.)

= Changes =

== Version 0.5 ==

 * Now using [http://www.jsslutils.org/|org.jsslutils] package name and Maven group ID.
 * Added sample SSLImplementation for Apache Tomcat 6.
 * Fixed issue with trust parameters when no trust store was specified explicitly.

== Version 0.4 ==

 * Changed methods for adding CRLs in PKIXSSLContextFactory into `addCrl`.
 * Added a `FixedServerAliasKeyManager` class, see [http://restlet.tigris.org/servlets/ReadMsg?list=discuss&msgNo=5712 (restlet-discuss) SSL + Virtual Hosts and Issue #489?].
 * Added an example [http://hc.apache.org/httpclient-3.x/apidocs/org/apache/commons/httpclient/protocol/SecureProtocolSocketFactory.html SecureProtocolSocketFactory] for using SSLContext with [http://hc.apache.org/httpclient-3.x/ Apache HTTP Client].

== Version 0.3 ==

 * Marked `newInitializedSSLContext` as deprecated in jSSLutils 0.3+, it is replaced with `buildSSLContext`. (Sorry about the inconvenience, but there were only 3 or 4 downloads at the time of the change.)
 * Added a `KeyStoreLoader` utility class, the aim of which is to load a keystore, perhaps from default system properties and allow for `KeyStore`s that are not file-based for example.
 * Added !KeyManager wrappers similarly to the !TrustManager wrappers to support features such as [http://java.sun.com/javase/6/docs/api/javax/net/ssl/X509ExtendedKeyManager.html X509ExtendedKeyManager.chooseEngineClientAlias].

== Version 0.2.1 ==

 * Packaging for [http://maven.apache.org/ Maven].
 * Separated the demo certificates into their own Maven bundle.

== Version 0.2 ==
 * Added !TrustManager wrappers.
 * Removed TrustAllClientsSSLContextFactory: this feature has now been replaced with a !TrustManager wrapper.
 * Added a GSI !TrustManager wrapper.

== Version 0.1 ==
 * SSLContextFactory.
 * X509SSLContextFactory.
 * PKIXSSLContextFactory.
 * TrustAllClientsSSLContextFactory.
 * Test cases.